From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number three 88. Recorded live
Thursday, September 5th, 2013. This episode of
Hansel minutes is brought to
you by Tellerik offering the
best in developer tools and
support online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklin.net makers of gesture
pack a powerful gesture, recording
and recognition system for Microsoft
connect for windows developers details.
Add gesture, pak.com. In this
episode, Scott talks with doctor
Neil Rudin about vision-based computing.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes and on Skype.
I've got dr. Neil Rudin.
How are you? I'm good,
Scott, how are you doing?
I'm okay. I'm okay. I'm
looking at a connect on
my desk here, plugged into
my PC, and I'm looking
at a leap motion, neither
of which I have used
lately. And I'm feeling pretty
sad about that. I'm not
sure if I'm more sad
about the connect or the
leap motion, but the point
is I'm not using minority
report gestures in order to
control my computer, but I
have the hardware, but you
probably don't have the software,
right. I'm starting to think
that that's it. So I
want to understand today, what
is keeping motion based computing
from taking off in the
way that I think it
should take off and whether
or not my head is
wrong about it? Yeah, it's
a good course. I mean,
I think the, the question
of, you know, is the
hardware ready is, is probably
a fair starting point, but
I think there's also the
question of, are we ready
in terms of the way
we use computers or the
way we think about computers?
I think a lot of
things need to change. You
know what I mean? In
the seventies, people had touchscreens
the tech, the hardware technology
was there. Now it was
a lot rougher than it
is now, but we were
not ready to go, you
know, go to a consumer
with a touch screen. It
was a rough experience. And
I think, you know, it's
took 10, 20 years to
get to a point where
we were even close to
being ready. And I think
vision-based computing. And that's really
what you're talking about here
with infrared cameras and sensors
is, is a, is a
different category of computing. Vision-based
computing is going to create
a, you know, a range
of different experiences. Those experiences
are still early stages. We're
exploring what they could be.
And I think right now
there was obviously a, a
clear rush to the gaming
market connects, you know, kind
of history in terms of
it being released. As you
know, from project Natel for
exports is very clear that
it's focused on gaming and
there's a niche there where
it makes a lot of
sense whether it's social gaming
or, or multi-user experiences in
front of a large screen
kind of living room or
lounge room experience that that's
a very specific marketplace where
Microsoft has clearly done very
well. Leap is an interesting
one because they're trying to
bring the focus closer to
a personal computer world and
personal experience. And what does
that mean? Well, I don't
think anyone really knows what
it means. I think that's
fundamentally one of the challenges
is we don't know. What
does that experience mean? I
mean, right now, if you
think about that close one
foot experience to your screen,
you already have some very
optimized over, you know, 30,
40 years we've been working
on experiences using keyboards over
20 plus years, we've been
working on experiences using mice,
and you're trying to introduce
a new input device, which
probably does have a place,
but the experience is still
very rough. And so you're
saying, well, Hey, this is
just sitting on my desk.
I'm not using it well,
that's because you're comparing something,
that's got a, a one
or two year experience lifetime
with something that's got a
20 or 30 year experience
lifetime. So yeah, there's a
way to go. There's no
doubt about that, but I
think there's some very obvious
maybe to me niche markets
where this makes a lot
of sense. So in the
no touch space where you
really don't want to be
touching a keyboard or mouse,
healthcare is a clear one
to me that there's some
opportunity space here. Every time,
you know, within a hospital
or a healthcare environment, someone
touches a keyboard or mouse,
really. It needs to be
cleaned down. And yeah, if
you could interact with a
computer without having to touch
anything, there are some advantages
to that. So I, you
know, I think there's some
spaces where people can get
some early stage wins, but
I also think that there's
a long way to go
in terms of evaluating the
experience and improving the experience.
And I think it's going
to be a long incremental
process. Now, hopefully it won't
be 20 years, but I
suspect it may be five
to 10. So you're saying
that the, the expectation I
have of picking up a
device at best buy this
consumer electronics store and just
drop into my machine, plug
in the USB, and then
I'm off and running with
the kind of immediate productivity
that I'd have purchasing a
mouse is an unreasonable expectation
on my part. I think
it is an unreasonable expectation.
Yeah. And I think it's,
we're at the stages now,
whereas a techie or a
geek, it's our, it's our
job to work out. What
is it that's missing and
what is it kind of
do to improve this? And
what, what can we iterate
on? What can we, you
know, do over the next
12 months, 24 months to,
to make the experience a
little bit better, or to
at least hit some markets
where there's an opportunity and
say, Hey, this is really
cool. If you were to
use it for ABC and
just do those, you know,
get those things working. I
mean, you probably remember right
when the mouse was first
introduced onto a PC, people
were very kind of curious
as to why, why, why
do you need this thing?
Well, what's the purpose of
it? You know, should it,
should we really care? Like
I can do all my,
you know, my Lotus one,
two, three, and my WordPerfect
purely keyboard trip. So what
the heck, why do I
need this thing? So, you
know, and I think over
time it became very clear
that the mouse has a,
has a, as a pointing
device with a high level
of granularity for touching specific
spaces very easily. And it
has a place, but you
know, there's lots of other
devices that still stay in
the niche. Like think of,
you know, people use my
spot, how many people use
track balls or how many
people use external tablets. And,
and yet there's still very
valuable input devices for certain
markets. Like if you're in
Canada design, you would probably
spend a lot of your
time with a stylist in
your hand, they're using an
external tablet. So, you know,
but that's not for the
everyday consumer. You could use
it, but you don't. So
that brings up an interesting
question. So just to give
you a little lay of
the land here, I've got
my regular, what do you
call us? Microsoft ergonomic mouse.
I've got my keyboard. I
have a logic tech touch
pad. It's the logic techs,
six 50. It's a little,
it's like a portable track
pad, right? Yep. I use
that for scrolling around two
fingers, scroll. I'm a big
fan of, to Springer finger
scroll. And then on my
left here, I've got a
Wacom tablet that I use
for, for Photoshop, but it's
pretty clear that if you
stack ranked these, including also
the, the leap motion and
the connect, the mouse is
being used 95% of the
time, the, the track pad
and the misuse being used
maybe 5% of the time.
Although if you were maybe
a primarily a Mac user
or a magic trackpad user,
you would find yourself using
the trackpad 90% of the
time the Wacom is being
used as a specialized input
device. It's it's like, I
would look at it like,
you know, you've got your
X box controller that you
use all the time, and
then you've got your driving
controller that you use when
you're playing driving games. Do
you think that the kind
of vision-based technologies like leap
motion and connect will ever
reach the kind of general
purpose use as a mouse
or keyboard? Or will they
always be the Wacom tablets
of the, of, of interaction?
Oh, that's a tough question.
I think that there, there
will be an increase of
their usage as people discover
new ways of creating software
interfaces for them. I, you
know, whether it will ever
exceed in terms of the
one foot experience sitting right
in front of your computer
will ever exceed the mouse
and keyboard. I doubt, but
for specific scenarios, I suspected
very much will. I think
vision-based computing gets much more
interesting beyond one foot. And
I think that's where connect
really has an opportunity beyond
leap the connect type devices,
where you can be 10
feet away from your computer
and you don't have, you
know, the keyboard and mouse
right in front of you.
And yet you can be
interacting with it. I think
we're not really thinking about
those things because we're so
stuck in this very personal
computer world. And I think
this is actually leads to
a much bigger conversation around,
you know, are we moving
from an era of personal
devices? Not that they're ever
gonna go away, we're always
have personal devices, but into
an era of many more
shared devices as well. So,
you know, the living room
is already is already, you
know, breaking ground in that
space where we have shared
computing experiences. Is that going
to be something else that
we will find in other
parts of the house, in
other parts of the workplace,
you think of meeting rooms
and you walk into a
meeting room, you really want
to have a shared computing
experience within that meeting room,
where everyone can engage with
the screen, the projector at
the same time and share
that experience. And I think
we're, we're starting to nudge
ourselves towards that. And I
think vision-based computing really helps
because with cameras, you can
identify who the people are
in that space. Maybe not
personally identified that this is
Scott, and this is Neil,
but you could say, Hey,
there's two people in this
room. And the guy on
the left is moving something
in the garden. The writer's
doing something else. And you
can identify who did what
and, and then visualize that
somehow on a screen or
on a display. And I
think that's where it gets
really interesting. So I think,
yes, possibly you're right. That,
that initial experience with the
leap is a little disappointing
because the space they're trying
to conquer is actually probably
the hardest space to conquer.
Whereas connect is taking a
slightly less challenging space in
the distance that it's approaching.
And I think you're very
much need to think when
you think about vision systems,
what is the distance from
the interface that that person
is? Because when you get
really close, you have to
question, why not use touch?
Why not use a mouse?
Why not use a cable?
Yeah. One of the things
that I tried to use
the leap for and tried
to like make it a
part of my day was
scrolling. Cause I want to
be able to lean back
and then kind of make
a kind of a flippant,
upward hand motion to indicate.
I want to scroll within
a webpage that I'm, that
I'm seeing. And it seemed
to me like that was
a very simple constrained motion
that is very unambiguous and
the software and the leap
had a lot of trouble
understanding that because they wanted
a, a within a few
inches of motion with just
one finger or two fingers
spread apart in a very
distinct V pushing forward and
kind of jabbing forward into
the air, flipping up and
then moving in a circle.
So what I took as
being a very kind of
off the cuff hand flip,
you know, in, in any
random direction, they wanted an
extremely precise motion. So they
needed precise input to do
what I wanted to and
to understand my intent. Yeah.
And I think that's a
lot of that is, is,
is around context as well.
So understanding the context that
you're in and, you know,
again, we're early stages of
this, although it's something that
people have been doing research
in for 40 years plus,
but contextual computing is something
that we're going to see
more and more of. And
I think we're already starting
to see in terms of
some of the applications that
you have when your personal
device, like your personal device
knows where you are. So
when you look up a
location, it says, do you
want to know how to
get, well, I know where
you are so I can
get you to that location
and the context of you
being in front of your
computer and what you're working
in. What does this hand
movement mean? Well, the, I
think the software that's understanding
that it needs to know,
are you in Excel or
are you in visual studio
or are you in Photoshop?
And they may all mean
different things depending on your
context, or are you on
a Skype call with your
friend? You're just waving to
your friend's child. They're all
different contexts. Yeah. We've all
seen that lack of context
with like, my wife will
say something about the Xbox,
but the Xbox hears her
say X-Box right. And then
the, you know, wackiness and
SUSE and context can mean
so many things, right? I
mean, context can mean, you
know, if the Xbox knows
that there's suddenly 40 people
in your house and there's
not usually 40 people in
your house while you're having
a party. So then maybe
it's context is going to
change more towards things around
party based gaming and music.
But while it's really easy
to say that from a
business requirements perspective, it just
takes one sentence, the amount
of work required, and the
privacy concerns around something as
simple as, Hey, I noticed
that there's more people in
your house that are usually
they're in a movie. We
would find that to be
amazing, but in real life
we would find that to
be super creepy. Yeah. And
I think that's, you know,
the conversation around context, although
we're a little off topic
is, is an interesting one
because people want it, but
don't want it. It's a
bit like, you know, people
want to have computers that
understand their daily lives and
can help them further and
really be a true personal
assist. You know, it's kind
of funny, you talk about
the context and you think
about things, the personal assistance
that we used to have
with PDAs, and they really
were not very assistive at
all. And yet, you know,
really in order to be,
to have, you know, the
full capability to assist you,
they need to have a
lot of personal information. And
then you counter that with.
Yeah. But I don't want
to give these guys all
my personal information. I don't
want them to know where
I'm shopping. I don't want
them to know that I
played tennis every Wednesday afternoon.
That's none of their business.
Well, if you don't give
that information, you can't get
the context. And so, you
know, it's that, that trade
off. And I think it's
going to be interesting to
see how companies business wise
play off over the next
10 years with that. Because
you know, some companies are
very clearly saying all your
data is ours and we'll
do what we want with
it. And we can provide
some extra contextual smarts because
of that. Then some companies
are saying, no, no, it's
all very much opt in
and you'll have to provide
this information if you want
to provide it. And we
can be a little bit
smarter if you do provide
it. So yeah, it's, it's,
it's a complex issue and
it's, it's not just a
technology issue. It's a social
issue. It's almost a political
issue now as well. Yeah.
I think that when I
think of my favorite scifi
movies, where someone wakes up
in their kitchen and has
this great conversation with their
personal computer, that's on all
of their walls and they
hear about their weather and
all those things. I don't
think anyone thought that would
be in the cloud. Everyone
just assumed that would be
in the house. Right. You'd
have a personal cloud. I
don't think anyone thought multinational
corporations would get that context
to work through things like
Google now without, you know,
by allowing it to escape
our house and go into
the world. And then they
control that. But that is
definitely off topic. I'll have
to do another show on
that, but let me understand
vision-based computing and how it
works at the hardware level.
So I understand that the
connect, which is on right
now, I have a connect
for windows, which I think
is different than the one
for, Yeah. Okay. So it's
shooting infrared beams at me
all the time. Like, like
a, like a dot pattern
of infrared. That's correct. You're
being bombarded by infrared with
the whole space that you're
in is being bombarded by
infrared beams. And then the
reflection from those infrared beams
is being picked up by
camera, on the connect device
and that's then detecting once
in the space. So then
the size of the dot
or the, is it the
size of the dot that's
telling it that, Oh, this.is
closer. Therefore, this is bouncing
off his hand, which is
closer. Or is it something
about the speed at which
that the light comes back?
Actually, I have no idea.
I'm a software guy, But
it's something like, something like
that in the sense of
far away dots are far
away, you know, it's a,
Yeah. So it has depth
perception. And of course it
has a traditional camera on
it as well, a color
camera. And so, you know,
by getting the, the image
from the color camera, getting
the depth image at the
same time and using some
smart software technology, we can
start to determine, you know,
what is in this space.
And we can do some
pretty cool things with that
in terms of say, Oh,
look, I can see something
that looks like a person
let's try and recognize where
their head is and where
their left arm is and
where their right arm is
and where their legs are.
And then, Oh, look, they're
moving now. Oh, they're moving
their left arm to the
right. Okay. That may be
as a gesture. Let's have
a look at my gesture
recognition table and see whether
the left arm moving towards
the right indicates a gesture.
Oh yes, it does. What
should I do? And based
on that gesture, And these
are higher and higher layers
of abstraction, but at the
lowest layer, you're getting back
a, an array. What kind
of a matrix of data
from the connect that indicates
here's the color stuff that
I saw the color pixels.
And here are the depth
Pixels, correct? Yeah. Like the
hardware doesn't give me your
left hand is moving right
to left or whatever. That's
also fun. Okay. And this
is where I think things
fall down because it seems
to me like both the
leap and the connect of
amazing hardware, but from a
software perspective, you know, when
I've, when I've sat down
and tried to program the
connect and they're like, here's
an array of ones and
zeros. I'm like, well, gosh,
okay, well, where's, where's the
hand. And there's the, the
SDK, which gives you some
more context. But I think
we've all had that experience
where we've been using a
connect and then suddenly it'll
take maybe like your left
leg and then just throw
it over your shoulder. And
it's completely insane just for
like a split second. You
know what I mean? It's
doing your thing. You're jogging
in place. And then your
flag flies up in the
air. So that again is
a software challenge. What the
connect does within the connect
SDK is that in first
positions, if it can't detect
exact physicians. So, and sometimes
those can be a little
bit bizarre and sometimes the
exact position it thinks it's
detecting is the, is the
bizarre one fact, the inferred
one makes more sense. So
you can use software to
determine that. In fact, there's
a series of getting started
guides and hands on labs
that I've built with the
connect for windows team that
shows you exactly how to
make some kind of sense
out of that. So, you
know, there are proportions that
are normal human body as,
and you can look for
those proportions and you can
detect the skeleton that's being
recognized in front of you.
And if you suddenly see
that the next frame, their
knee is above their head,
whereas previously they were standing
up and that's probably an
incorrect frame, so you should
ignore it. And so there's
a lot you can do
in software to optimize and
remove those really weird. As
you say, kind of erroneous
frames from the picture that
you're using, it's where you
get repeated, weirdness that it
will become a problem. So
if someone is crouching down
and then these really are
above their shoulders, you will
have some issues there because
typical skeleton recognizable, look at
that and go, Hmm, no
idea what to do at
this point. So Is this
similar to voice recognition in
the sense of the better,
the voice recognition gets better
and better? The less possible
things that can be said,
like I've got a voice
recognizer in my car. That's
like from the nineties, it's
like, whatever crap Toyota put
in my car, but it
only understands like 15 words.
So it's actually pretty good.
Fantastic. And it's never wrong,
right? Because it can only
hear me say like volume
up volume down and stuff
like that. And I've even
made up like mumbly words
that kind of had the
same cadence and it got
it. Right. So I'm wondering
in the connect world, what
you're describing is that the
body is shaped pretty much
the same for everybody, right?
There's only so many ways
you could go. So you're
basically saying, you're going to
constrain it by saying, we're
going to assume people for
the most part are not
double jointed. Correct. And then
start throwing data out. And
that allows you to be
more accurate. Yeah. Yeah. I
know. I think a lot
of that's about filtering, but
it's also, I mean, one
of the things that Microsoft
is doing is using machine
learning algorithms to improve the
skeleton recognition. And in fact,
it's, it's pretty similar to
the algorithms that are used
for speech recognition, similar to
the algorithms that he used
for machine translation for translating
language is from one language
to another. It's really looking
for patterns that recur and
saying, yes, this is a
valid behavioral pattern and therefore
makes sense. And therefore the
skeleton is probably doing this.
So in the 1.7 STK
that was released not long
ago, the connect SDK connect
for windows, SDK introduced two
new interactions. One was a
push or press interaction where
the hand, you know, we're
detecting a hand, is moving
towards the screen. And the
other one is a grip
interaction where we recognize closed
fist as opposed to an
open fist gesture. And those
are both trained, using lots
and lots of video footage
and depth footage of people
interacting in front of a
connect device, carrying out those
interactions. And then using machine
learning to recognize more does
actually mean because people press
in different ways. Some people
will actually physically move their
whole body and move their
arm towards the screen. Other
people will just tip their
hand down towards the screen.
And yet they're both should
be recognized as press. And
so there there's a lot
of work in terms of
what can be done in
software to improve division systems
and the recognition of people's
interactions. Can you talk a
little bit about the layers,
because I understand that I've
seen the array I've, I've,
I've done the basic connect
SDK stuff where it's like,
okay, here's an array of
ones and zeros, and that
indicates the color data. Here's
the depth data. What lays
on top of that? That
gets me all the way
up to a gesture I
can recognize as a press.
Yeah. A good question. So
There's the, the streams of
information that come in there
is there is a, as
you say, a pure depth
stream and, and a vol
camera stream, and you can
just pull those frames out
and then it's up to
you to have fun with
those beyond that. There's also
a skeleton, recognize it. And
the skeleton recognizing we'll give
you up to six skeletons
that can be recognized in
a space at a time.
Now we only tracking, we
only have the ability to
CPU wise to track two
of the four interactions, but
it will see up to
six. And then from there
you can do things like,
okay, now we have the
skeleton, the skeleton is all
broken down into a series
of limbs. So it's an
array of components if you
like of the skeleton. So
you can see left elbow,
right? Elbow, wrist, hand, head,
shoulders, knees, toes. I think
we know that song. And
so the taking that skeleton
data, which each skeleton position,
each component of the skeleton
will have a position that
changes each frame. You can
then start doing your own
gestures. So you could say
I'm detecting that the left
arm is moving in relation
to the head and therefore
doing a gesture. And actually
Josh Blake did a video
on the connect for windows
blog recently, where he's showing
how to pick out some
of those gestures by just
detecting a hand position and
a head position and saying,
well, the hand is moving,
you know, closer to the
head or further away from
the head Def or indicating
some kind of wave gesture.
So you've got that. And
then above that, there's also
the connect for windows toolkit
and the connect for windows
toolkit. It gives you a
set of controls that already
implement some of these interactions.
So you can actually just
pick up a control and
there's WPF controls and direct
to direct two D direct
three D C plus plus
controls that let you detect
things like the grip gesture
or the press gesture. And
then there's controls built using
those gestures that are a
button control. The ScrollViewer control
that after the box will
get store to magically detect
the interaction and work with
it. Okay, that's all, you've
got the, the color stream,
the depth stream, the skeleton
recognizer, those are coming to
you as frame. So I'm
going to get like an
array of body parts, correct.
As, as fast as the
system can give them to
me, are those body part
or that body part array?
Is that coming from the
connect hardware or is that
coming from this It's coming
from software left. So the
hardware, the software is interpreting
the debt straight and doing
the skeleton record. And then
I understand that there's a
near a near mode that
was added in the connect
recently, which is the I'm
sitting in front of my
computer mode as opposed to
the I'm dancing in the
middle. So It's, it's a
closer mode connect for X-Box
doesn't, you know, is really
optimized for that living room
lounge room type experience. It's
not optimized for sitting closer
to the computer. So connect
for windows provided a concept
called the near mode, which
really refocuses and does some
recognition based on the fact
that a skeleton will be
closer to the connect device.
And that could mean one
foot, two foot instead of
10 foot from the device
Algorithmically, what is the right
way, or what are people
using to detect things kind
of over time? It's easy
to be stuck in a
while loop or for-loop and
watch for particular behavior that
happens at an instance, but
this is a stream of
things where I might start
moving my right hand at
one point, and then in
the middle of that right
hand gesture, halfway through, start
moving my left hand. So
I've got things happening over
time at different speeds that
take different lengths of times,
all of which might be
meaningful to my application that
moves from the average programmers
understanding of four loops and
the occasional link query into
a pretty complicated algorithmic and
math type type of stuff
that they might not, not
know how to write. Yeah,
it's fun. Isn't it? How
do you do that? How
do you do that, dr.
Neil? Well, do I need
to degree in a doc
and a PhD to do
this Possibly, although probably not
the, the reality is that
it is, I mean, you
know, at the end of
the day, you've got basic
programming constructs and you need
to start building out patterns
and there's a couple of
things you can do it
at a, at a low
level. You can actually just
start tracking position and noting
that something is going in
a direction. And so you
say, okay, and you know,
left hand is moving, right.
Right-hand is moving up. Is
that going to continue for
a period of time? Is
a set distance? So you
may only be looking for
these two things to happen
over a distance or these
two things to happen over
a period of time, and
then you can trigger your
activity. But like I said,
the other thing that's kind
of where, where, yes, you
probably do need a bit
more intelligence or a bit
more practice or experiences in
the machine learning side of
things, which is where you're
actually taking a lot of
existing content or footage of
people doing a certain behavior,
and then letting the machine
go at it, see if
it can work out using
some machine learning algorithms, you
know, what is the, what
is the commonality between these
things? And, you know, the
funny thing is we don't
actually know what the, you
know, at the end of
the day, what is it
in is specifically the commonality?
What we know is that
percentage wise, we have a
high percentage result when you
feed in a thousand images
of video footage of people
doing this thing, that we
now have a high percentage
success result based on the
output, whatever algorithm looks like.
So, you know, you could
dig into it, I'm sure.
And find out exactly what
the details are and what
it's starting to look for.
But I certainly don't care
too much, as long as
I'm getting a high percentage
result out of it. Really.
So machine learning, you're saying
as a, as an engine,
we are caring less and
less about what it's learned
and more that it has
learned it. Like you throw
it thousands of video footages
of someone making a press
gesture and it draws a
nice bell curve. And it
figures out that how accurate
does that need to look
right? You could say, well,
I want to catch all
the outliers. And then you,
you would catch some of
the people doing weird press
gestures, except it might cause
false positives and other instances.
And then that, that bell
curve is built by the
machine learning, learning algorithm. And
you don't care how it
happened. It just happened. Yeah.
I think we shouldn't care
as day-to-day developers trying to
build something with connect for
windows, you know, how, you
know, the details of how
it happened. You should care
that, Hey, I now have
a new interaction that's recognizable.
I'm sure it is actually
scientifically. It's really interesting to
try and work out what
is happening in there because
maybe we can build better
machine learning algorithms from doing
that, but at a high
level, in terms of, as
a developer plugging into the
connect SDK, we should say,
Oh, that's great. You know,
and now have this new
interaction for press that someone
else has done the hard
work for. And that's someone
else's partly scientists, but also
partly machine learning algorithms that
have gone and optimized the,
you know, this is the
highest percentage recognition for that
particular gesture. No they're libraries.
I think Carl Franklin has a
library for connect, but I
assume that there's lots of
different libraries out there. Where
can I teach, connect what
a gesture should look like?
And if I just do
it hundreds of times, it'll
eventually learn, actually One's got
a really nice tool called
it's called gesture pack that
you demonstrate a gesture to
it and recorded a couple
of times, and then you,
it will generate the code
for you to determine whether
that gesture has been actioned
in front of the connect
device. It's really quite a
sweet little tool. So yeah,
I'd recommend having a look
at that. There are a
number of them out there,
although I think, you know,
Carl has really done a
great job of simplifying it
to kind of, and, and
I guess it's expected of
call really of a visual
basic program as level. So,
you know, you can really
take that thing and just
use it and as is
it works and yeah, there
are a lot more out
there. There's a lot of
open source libraries out there,
and it depends how deep
you want to go into
it. You know, do you
want to go into analyzing
all the, all the details
of the interactions or do
you want to just stay
at a high level, get
something that when someone waves
in a certain direction front
of your screen, it performs
an action. So, you know,
I think it really depends
again, on the context of
your application and what you're
trying to achieve. If you're
trying to achieve something, that's
just grabbing people's attention in
a shopping mall with a
connect device, you probably don't
need to have super detailed
level of recognition. And, you
know, if you miss one
in a hundred people's gestures,
does it really matter? No,
it's not critical. If you're
trying to build something where
you're actually going to be
doing some kind of healthcare
of using connect more than
your, it really does matter.
So you want a much
more precise recognition system. And
whether we even have that
yet, I would be surprised
right now. I mean, not,
not with off the shelf
hardware, I suspect where the,
the new, the new device
that was announced for Xbox
one could be really interesting
for that. And whether it's
got again, gain high enough
granularity, I just don't know.
Hmm. Yeah. I think that
it would be, I'd love
to see this for the
deaf. I know there was
a lot of excitement when
connect originally came out that
the deaf would be able
to use this and have
hand gesture recognition that was
granular enough that you could
have almost two way translation
between people doing sign language
and people speaking, but then
they lowered the resolution before
release and it turned out
it wasn't going to happen.
Yeah. And I think that's
probably a cost issue, right?
I mean, cameras cost money
and the higher the resolution,
the higher the cost and
the CPU and the CPU
processing is expensive as well.
Yeah. So, you know, there's
no point in releasing a
product that you can't buy
a computer to plug into
and make it work. Whereas
obviously over time, Moore's law
still exists. And although you're
probably slowing down a little
bit in terms of people's
capacity to actually utilize the
processing power, then I think
we'll see some of these
devices with high levels of
granularity being used more, there's
a lot of processing power
on use now in people's
personal computers. So yeah, it's
a big opportunity to go
forward. Yeah. I know. I
was looking at both the
connect and the leap motion
leap motion right now is
using up a 0.5% of
my CPU. If I'm waved
my hand over it, it
uses 3%. And in my
kind of obsessive compulsive brain,
I was like 3% CPU.
I don't have that kind
of CPU to spare, but
even right now, we're doing
a high definition, Skype plus
audio recording plus outlook and
visual studio are all open.
I'm only using 10% of
my CPU. I think I
probably have enough idol. Yeah.
You could probably spend 3%.
Yeah. Well, thanks so much
for chatting with me today,
dr. Neil. Oh, you're welcome.
It's good to catch up.
Yeah. And any links at
all you can give me
to put in the show
notes to point people towards
some of the articles that
you've done at Josh Blake
connect for windows blog and
some of the things that
you think people need to
learn about vision-based computing. I
would appreciate it. Sure. I
mean the main one is
really the connect for windows
developer site for developers. And
I'll send you the link
for that. And yeah, from
there, there's a whole bunch
of Connections that will take
you out. Brian, this has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week.